## Multi class classification  
Logistinc regression earlier only developed for the binary classification. Currently there are two techniques   
1. OVR: One over rest  
2. Multi nominal: class softmax function  
## One vs rest or one vs rest  
In this method, we train that many LR models as many classes are there. we decompose the data by creating the as many class column as much they are present. then we create the yes or no for theat particular class. and we will get prob of each class , then we normalize it and max value we will take as the ansswer.  
## Softmax Logistic regression / Multinomial LR
$\sigma(z)_i = e^{z_i}/\sum_{j=1}^{k}e^{z_j}$  
so in the multiclass problem for eg if we have 3 class then we need to draw the 3 lines and each line will have 3 parameters then total we will have 9 parameters. Here also we use the loss function   
$Loss = -1/n\sum_{i=1}^{n}\sum_{k=1}^{k}y_i^klog(y_{ihat}^k)$  
## when to use OVR or Multinomial Regression
OVR is appropriate if an instance can belong to more than one class, as each classifier provides an independent probability for each class. or when we are dealing with imbalanced data OVR might perform better when class distribution is highly imbalanced sich each class gets a dedicated model.  
### Multinomial regression  
1. Computational efficiency is required
2. Classes are mutually exclusive 
3. Interpretability is important  
## Maximum likelihodd estimation 
what is probability: when we know the distribution of the random experiment, which means we know the parameter of the equation and now if we calculate the chance of a event that is called Probability.  
In the likelihood we do the same thing opposite, we will have the event now we will check what is the probability of having 0.5. Basically event/data we have and we want to estimate the parameter (likelihood).  
For the Continous distribution like normal distribution (150, 10), we can find the proability of X in 150 - 180. but if we want to calculate the reverse way for eg we know that heigh is 100 what is the liklehood that it belong to normal distribution with (150, 10). then can be find using the formula for normal distribution and put the values. result will the likelihood.  
## Maximum likelihood estimation 
It is the parameter which is getting justified the most by the given data, it is the likelihood value by taking maximum parameter value.   
MLE is the method of estimating the parameter of a statistical model given some observed data.  
## how we use MLE in the LR
For creating the loss function we assume the distribution of a bernoulli and then we use the equation of the bernoulli to calculate the parameters and create the negative log likelihood loss function. 
## Assumption of Logistic Regression 
1. Independence of observation: The observations should be independent of each other. In other words, the outcome of one instance should not affect the outcome of another.  
2. Linearity of independent variables and log odds: we do some transformation in the equation which is used for the prediction in case of Logistics regression then we can find that they should be linearly related. 
3. absence of multicollinearity: The independent variables should not be too highly correlated with each other, a condition known as multicollinearity. while not a strict assumption, multicollinearity can be a problem because it can make the model unstable and difficult to interpret.   
5. Large sample size: 10 least cases with the least frequent outcome.  
## ODDS 
$odds = P/(1-P)$
it can be between 0 to infinity, if we take the log of odds.  
## Polynomial features 
Here also we draw the non linear lines to seperate out the different classes, same as linear regression we can add the degree on the polynomial.  
if we will take the degree = 2 and we have 2 features then x1_0 , x1_1, x1_2 and same for x2 and there will be some interaction terms also.  
## Regularization in Logistic Regression   
here we use the c which 1/lambda so relation is inverse between c and lambda
## Hyper Parameters
1. Penalty : regularization (default it is L2 applied)
2. Dual: default = False, till no of rows> no of columns
3. tol: tolerance , we dont change much 
4. c : inverse of regularization strenght 
5. fit_intercept : true
6. class_weight: we use this when we have imbalanced data
5. solver: we have the chart for different type of logistic regression we have different solvers, we can refer that chart and implement accordingly  
6. multi_class auto , ovr, multinomial 
7. warm_start: when set to true, reuse the same parameters when used at intially 
8. n_jobs we can give -1 to use all the cores
9. l1_ratio it is for elastic net