## Assumption of Linear Regression
1. Linearity: Relationship between independent variable $(x)$ and dependent variable $(y)$ must be linear. we can check this using the scatter plot. we should be seeing the random cloud of data points. if we will see the U shaped or curved data point then it is voilating the assumption. we can fix this by doing the transformation like log, $x^2, x^3$, inverse transformation, square root 
    - we can create the Residual vs Fitted plot in which x-axis will have the predicted values $y^{hat}$ vs residuals which is $y^i-y^{hat}$. if this plot show the random clouds of points then we are able to capture all the underline pattern in the data if not then we were not able to capture the curve of the data.
    - why we plot the $y^{hat}$, because we summarize all the input variables into the single variable, instead of having 20 plots for individual variable we use one variable to check the model wise performance.  
    - we can add the polynomial terms and fit the linear regression if the model performance improve significantly then data is not linear  
    #### what happend when this assumption failed  
        - Bias in parameters estimates: when the true relationship is not linear and we assume that is linear then there will be bias in the coefficient and inference will not be good
        - Reduced predictive accuracy : Due to this it will underfit the data, missing important trends and Patterns
        - invalid hypothesis test and confidence interval  
    #### How to handel if the assumption is voilated  
        - Transformation 
        - polynomial linear regression 
        - piece wise linear regression
        - Non parametric and semi-parametric method
2. Homoscedasticity (Constant variance) : The spread of residuals should be constant, it should not increase or decrease as we move from left to right. If does changes then its standard error and p value is not reliable.
    - we can check residuals plotss for funnel or cone shaped plot, if it is present then it is hetroscedasticity.
    - we have statistical tests also like breush-Pagan or Goldfeld-Quandt.
    - standard errors of the coefficients, these wont be reliable. T-test will fail 
### Standard erros
    - standard error is the standard deviation of the mean of samples drawn from the population  
    $standand error = \sigma*\sqroot(n)$
3. No Auto-correlation : The error of the one observation should not be correlated to error of another observation. It is common in time series data  
    - If errors are correlated then model we will double count the information leading to artificial low p values (making variables more significant then they are)  
    - we can check this by durbin-watson test, the values ranges from 0 to 4. if the values is 2 then no autocorrelation, if 0 then positive and negative if values near 4.
4. Normality of Residuals : The residual should flow the normal distribution e ~ N(0, $\sigma^2$) mean zero and constant variance. this assumption is required for reliable hypothesis Testing (p-values) and confidence interval. The features themselves dont need to be normal only the errors. 
    - we need errors normally distributed because we use f test for overall significance, and underline formaula uses residuals only which should be normally distributed then square of erros follow the chi square distribution and if we divided with degree of freedome that will flow the f - distribution
    - we can check using the Q-Q plot, histogram of erros should be in bell shaped,omnibus test ,shapiro-wilk test or jarque-bera test.
    - In the Omnibus test, we will have Null and alternate hypothesis, fit the linear regresion and calculate the residuals then we calculate the skewness and kurtosis, then we calculate the omnibus test statistics and then we compare caculate p value and compare it with 0.05
## What to do when the assumption fails
    - Model selection : Employ model selection techniques like cross validation, AIC or BIC to choose the best model among different models that can handle non normal residuals.
    - Robust regression : they are types of regressions, we can leave these. we can also try the transformation 
    - Non parametric or semi parametric : 
    - Use bootstraping : Bootstrapped based inference do not rely on the normality of residuals and can provide more accurate confidence intervals and hypothesis test.
as we always have samples size greater than 30 then we can assume that it will follow the normal distribution 
    
5. No or little Multicollinearity : The independent variable shoudl not be highly correlated with each other or we can say linear relationship. Otherwise it will make impossible for the model to distinguish the individual effect of each feature. coefficients becomes unstable and swing widly.
    - we can check the correlation matrix and look for values > 0.8 (person co relation coefficient)
    - we can also use the VIF which is variance inflation factor, if value is > 5 or 10 that means we have problematic multicollinearity. Here we take the one independent variable as yi and predict it using the other independent variable using linear regression and calculate the r2 and formula for the vif is   
    $vif = 1/(1-R^2)$  
    for all the variable we will calculate this
    - we can also check with the condition number if it is greater than 30 then we have multi collinearity   
    - Condition No. is calculated as the ration of largest eigen values and smallest eigen values of the matrix xTx, if it >30 then issue otherwise we are good.
    - we can remove any highly correlated variables, combine them, or use the regularization technique like Lasso, ridge. 
### when multi collinearity is bad?
    - if we are using linear regression only for prediction then multi collinearity doesnt matter but if we are using same model for inference then we will not use it. 
### what happen mathmetically when we have multi collinearity 
    - Difficulty in finding the most important predictors
    - inflated standard errors
    - unstable and unreliable estimates  
- perfect multicollinearity happen when we have exact linear relationship between the independent variables, basically we have pearson correlation coefficient 1. when we have perfect multicollinearity we wont be able to calculate the betas of the independent coefficients because we will not able to calculate the inverse of the matrix   
we can calcualte betas using below formula  
$\beta = (x^T*x)^{-1}x^Ty$  
$var(\beta) = \sigma^2(x^T*x)^{-1}$    
$SE(\beta) = \sqrt{diagonal(\sigma^2(x^T*x)^{-1})}$  
now inverse matrix diagonal terms will be the variation of betas and if we take square root of these variation terms then we will get standard errors of each betas.   
standard erros will be high because determinant values will be close to zero and to calculate the inverse we divide by determinant.  
for the unstable and unreliable estimates : even if we change the values in one column for one row but coefficients values will change a lot due to multi collinearity.  
## Types of Multi collinearity 
1. structural Multi collinearity : Due to the way in which the variables are defined or the model is constructed. It occurs when one independent variable is created as a linear combination of other independent variable or when the model includes interaction terms or higher-order terms. Because of data scientist changes multi collinearity came in the data.
2. Data-driven multi collinearity : Already present in the data 
## How to remove the multicollinearity 
1. collect more data
2. remove the one highly correlated variables
3. combine correlated variables 
4. use partial least squares regression (first we apply PCA and then we apply linear regression ) 
