# Time Series 
There are two fundamental concepts in the time series which Trend and seasonality. Trend represent the general movement over the time, while seasonality represent changes in behavior in the course of single season. Mostly monthly data have yearly seasonality, Every year certain patterns repeat in certain months. 
## Resampling 
it allows you to change the agg level of  a time series. if you have data collected in hourly intervals but need daily totals for the analysis, resampling is the way to go.
## Shifting
shift() function is pandas is used to, well , shift the entire series up or down by the desired number of periods. 
## rolling 
Time series data in the original format is volatile, especially on smaller aggregation levels. The concept of rolling, or moving average is a useful technique for smoothing time series data.
## Differencing 
It is essential technique when working with the financial data, generally differencing is used to make the series stationary. Here we have order like 1st order 2nd order.  
## White Noise 
white noise is series which is not predictable, as it is a sequence of random numbers. if you build a model and tis residuals values look like white noise then you know you did everything to make the model as good as possible. on the opposite side, there a better model for your data set if there are visible patters in the residuals.   
Following condition must be satisfied for a time series to be classified as white noise. 
1. mean should be zero
2. Std is constant, it doesnt change over time.
3. The correlation between series and its lagged version is not significant.
### There are three ways to test if time series resembles white noise 
1. By plotting the time series
2. By comparing mean and std over time
3. By examining autocorrelation plots
## Random walk 
Just like white noise random walk series also not predictable, it is different from white noise because value are not a list of random numbers. the current value depends on the previous one.
In the random walk series auto correlation plot have very significance with each lagged value. Also to do the forecast of the series we require stationary series (constant mean, variance, co variance) and random walk isnt stationary. But we can make the series stationary by differencing with first order. after that it can become the white noise so we can plot it and check. for these types of series forecast last value of the actuals.
## Decomposing time series data
Any time series we can decompose into trend, seasonality and residuals and then analyze each component seperately.   
It is used to analyze the historical time series data. for decompose we need to specify how they are combine there are two ways one is additive and other is multiplicative.  
For additive $y_t = T_t + S_t + R_t$  
For Multiplicative $y_t = T_t * S_t * R_t$  
Trend and seasonality can be multiplicative and additive so there are four ways these can be combined. 
additive trend mean trend is linear like a line and additive seasonality mean width and hieght of seasonal periods is same or not changing over time.  
## Auto correlation and Partial auto correlation 
Correlation measures the strenght of the linear relationship between two sequences. In the autocorrelation between a sequence with itself lagged by some number of time units. 
Autocorrelation is the plot between the number of lags in the x axis vs y axis shows the correlation of the sequence.  
Note: Before calculating autocorrelation we should make the time series stationary. 
## Partial autocorrelation 
In the partial autocorrelation only the direct effect is shown and all intermediary effects are removed.  
Here also we should make the time series stationary
if the ACF plot decline gradually and the PACF drops instantly use AR model
if the ACF plot drop instantly and the PACF decline gradually use MA model 
if the ACF plot decline gradually and the PACF decline gradually use ARMA model 
if the ACF plot drops instantly and the PACF drops instantly wont be able to model it  