## Moving Averages(MA) 
we will start with one data point as we will not have anything before that then we take 2 and then 3 if the window size is 3 and then we will keep moving the window by 1 datapoint. we can use the rolling() function in Pandas to calculate sliding window. Also as we are doing the averaging it wont be able to capture the minimum and maximum value of the time sereis. 
## Exponentially weighted moving average
This is also called simple exponentail smoothening.   
$y_t = \sum_{i=0}^{t}w_ix_{t-i}/\sum_{i=0}^{t}w_i$  
How you will define the weight term depends on the value of the adjust parameter. when set to True, the weights are calculated by dividing with the decaying adjustment factor in beginning periods to account for imbalance in relative weightings. This parameter is True by default and if left unchanged following will be the formula 
$y_t = x_t + (1-\alpha)x_{t-1} + (1-\alpha)^2x_{t-2} + (1-\alpha)^3x_{t-3} + (1-\alpha)^tx_{0} / 1 + (1-\alpha) + (1-\alpha)^2 + (1-\alpha)^3 + (1-\alpha)^t$  
$\alpha = 2/(span + 1)$ 
you can use the ewm() function in Pandas to calculate exponentially weighted moving average, alpha or make you life easier with the span parameter. 
## Stationarity Test and Automation   
A stationary series is centered around some value, doesnt have too many spikes and unexpected variations and doesnt show drastic behaviour changes from one part to another.  
1. Stationary series are easy to analyze 
2. Most forecasting algorithms assume a series is stationary. 
## ADF Test - Dickey fuller test 
Null hypothesis ---> Time series is not stationarity 
Alternative Hypothesis -----> time is stationary   
if p value is greater than 0.05 then time serie is not stationary.  
To make the serie stationary we do the differencing of first order or second order. After that we can again to do the test
## Exponential smoothening Theory 
Holts method: Double exponentail smoothening we will provide the alpha and trend parameter with the possible values as add or mul. we can also make damped = True if you are forecasting a long date period. doing so will reduce the effect of a trend over time, which is helpful when the trend isnt expected to grow indefinitely at the current rate.  
$b_t = (1-\beta)b_{t-1} + \beta(l_t - l_{t-1})$  
$y_t = l_t + b_t$  
$y_{t+n} = l_t + nb_t$  
n is the number of time steps into the future. apha and beta are the smoothing parameters.  
## Holts winters (Triple exponentail smoothening)
Just like trend seasonality also introduced with gamma as a parameter and with two values as additive or multiplicative   
$c_t = (1-\gamma)c_{t-L} + \gamma(x_t - l_{t-1} - b_{t-1})$  
$y_t = (l_t + b_t)c_t$  
Forecasting $y_{t+n} = (l_t+ nb_t)c_{t}-L + 1 + (n-1)modL$  
## Auto Regression theory  
The term autoregression is closely tied to a regular regression from statistics. The only gotcha is that the AR model uses data from the same input variable in a lagged format, hence the auto part of auto regression.  
The algorithm uses the linear combination of the past values to make the forecast.  
## ARIMA Auto regressive Integrated Moving average models
it contains three main component  
1. The Autoregressive (AR) : it predicts the current value based on a weighted sum of previous values, capturing the idea that history mattters  
2. The integration : differencing, removes the trends and seasonality by subtracting yesterdays value from the present. This process makes the series stationary. its statistical properties remains same so the data becomes more stable and easier to model.
3. the moving average (MA) components models the current value using weighted past forecast errors, correcting the past mistakes to improce accuracy.
## Assumptions of ARIMA
1. stationarity
2. Linearity : It assumes the future value of the series is a linear combination of past values and past errors. if your series has highly nonlinear relationships, ARIMA may not perform well, and you may consider other models , such as nonlinear regression.
3. No seasonality 
4. Univariate Data
5. No autocorrelation in residuals  
ARIMA model have 3 parameters p,d,q -- p for AR how many lags values to consider d for differencing the series to make the serie stationary and q for how many lag errors which are affecting the current values of the time serie  
SARIMA: for sarima model we have (p,d,q)(P,D,Q,m) where the lower case letter refer to the non seasonaly components and the upper parameters represent the seasonal components.  
