- There is a trade off, model which are good in inference, they are not that good in prediction and vice versa.
## Statsmodel Linear Regression 
now we will study the coefficients and intercetp how good they are and how close they are to the reality. 
## Understanding the Regression Results
we have 4 Main boxes   
a. Meta Data  
b. Goodness of fit metrics  
c. Individual feature relationship   
d. Metrics which checks the assumption of LR.
### Goodness of Fit
1. F-statistcs and Prob (F-statistic): it tells if there is any relationship exist between dependent and independent variables
we do the hypothesis testing. 
### TSS, RSS AND ESS
TSS: Total sum of square  (variation around the mean line) $\sum(y_i-y^{mean})^2$  
RSS:  Residual sum of square (variation around the regression line, it is the combination of reducible and irreducible error both, because if model is not good enough then that error will go and add in the RSS) $\sum(y_i-y^{hat})^2$  
ESS: Explained sum of square ESS = TSS-RSS, this is the explained variation
## Degree of freedom
In linear regression, the total degrees of freedom (df_total) represent the total number of datapoints - 1. it represents the overall variability in the dataset that can be attributed to the model and the residuals.  
Total degree of freedom in linear regression is divided into two components  
1. Degree of freedom of the model: this is equal to the total number of independent variables in the models(k).
2. Degree of freddom for the residuals: df_residuals is given by the no. of independent pieces of information that are available for estimating the variability in the residuals (erros)after fitting the regression model.  
This is equal to the number of data points (n) minus the number of estimated parameters including the intercepts (k+1).  
The sum of the degree of freedom for the models and residuals is equal to the total degree of freedom.   
$df_{total} = df_{model} + df_{residuals}$  
$Total-degree of freedom = n - 1, df_{model} = k, df_{residual} = n - k - 1$ 