## KNN intuition  
we take the value of K for eg k = 3, so we consider the 3 nearest neighbors.  
we calculate the eculedean distances of the new point with all the old points then we will sort it in ascendening order. 
then closest will be at the top. we apply the rule called majority count. we ask for the value of 3 data points which is in majority we assign that class to the new point.    
we apply the standard scaler to all the features, xi-mean/(std)    
## How to select the value of the K  
It depends on the data, for different data different value of k will work better.  
One is heuristic approach, sqroot of n , n is number of observation.  
finding the value of k using experiment like cross validation. we will make different knn value with different models with different k. we will find the accuracy score for all the models and then we can select the value of k, from which we are getting the best accuracy.   
## Decision surface  
It is the graph which helps us to indentify the new data point in which region it will lie.   
where the decision surface change from one region to another that is called decision boundary.  
## Overfitting and underfitting   
for the very low k value, knn will overfit and if the value of k is very high then it will do the underfitting.    
## Limitation of knn  
- it is the lazy learner, when we have large data set we will not use the knn.
- In the training phase we dont do anything, we do everything in the prediction phase.  
- High dimensional data, if the dimensions are high then distance calculation formula will not be corrent and this is also curse of dimensionality. 
- it is also dont work good with the outliers  
- Non homogenous feature scaler, feature should be of standard scaled.  
- Imbalanced dataset, knn will not work correctly
- it also not good for inferences, it is ok for prediction 
## Decision boundary
- they are of two types, linear and non linear
- vormoi diagram is used to draw the decision boundary for knn algo.
