## KNN regressor
In the regressor we will same calculate the eucledean distance of K nearest neighbor then we calculate the mean of these values and predict this as a new value. in some places we use median also.  
Note: As we increase the value of k overfitting will reduce and for low values of k overfitting (High variance) will happen.  
## Hyperparameters
1. weights: it contains two values uniform or weighted. if we choose unifor then all the data points will have same weightage and if we choose the weighted then different data points is assigned the different weights.  
data point which is more close are assigned more weightage.  
$weight = 1/distance$  
callable: here we can also give our own functions
2. Setting distance: Here metric values is minkonski, p value = 2 for euclidean distance. we have different types of distances. we have manhattan distance, we take the mode of summation of subtract between x distance and same for y distance.
    - In eculidean distance, all the axis should have at same scale
    - we have also curse of dimensionality, it will not work properly.  
for P = 1 it will be manhattan distance.  
P should be greater than zero.  
$Distance (Minkowski) = (\sum_{i=1}^{d} (x_{2i} - x_{1i})^{p})^{1/p}$  
if you are working on the higher dimension data then move to lower value of p.  
### Space & Time Complexity
we have parameter in the knn to optmize the number of datapoints to consider for the distance calculation, like kd tree. it is type of binary search tree. same we have ball tree.
 
