## Batch vs Online ML
- In Batch Ml we train the entire data together on ml algo but in Online ML we do increamental learning as will get the new data
- Batch leanrning is done on offline system, model is ready then we deployed on server.
- Limitation of the Batch learning  
    * Lots of data
    * Hardware limitation: if model is connect with the server 
    * Availability 
- In Batch learning we bring down the model we do the training with the latest data and deployed it again, this process can be repeated weekly or monthly. 

## Online Learning 
- In the Online learning model is deployed on server and it will do the prediction and also train on small chunks of the data (called mini batch) without bring down from server to train. so it will do the prediction and training together. 
- it will do the increamental training by providing data sequentially. 
### when to use
1. when there is concept drift: when problem statement context is keeps on changing and very volatile
2. Cost effective: Online Learning is more cost effective compared to Batch learning
3. Faster solution: 
### How to implement 
- SGD LR, here in the model we have partial fit 
- there is a library called river which is doing the machine learning on the streaming data
- vowpal wabbit also we can use
- Learning Rate, we need to set in the online learning how frequent we need to train and how much historical data it should keep and how much new data it will learn.
## Disadvantages 
- its little tricky to use, 
- risky : if got the wrong data then it will do the wrong prediction, so we should do the continour monitoring of the model for eg using anamoly detection etc. then you should make the systme offline and rollback to previous version and go online. something like this activities.
## Instance vs Model Based Learning
- In the instance based learning model will memorize the data or patterns in the data whereas in the Model based learning, model will try to generalize and learn the general pattern only.
- In the instance based learning we dont train the model, we keep the data as it is, when we got the new data point we then start calculating the cosine simialarity and with all the points and then we pre decide number of data points like k = 3 to classify the new data point.
 



